ASDL Tools
==========

This repository contains tools used at the Advanced Structures and
Dynamics Laboratory from the Chonnam National University, in Gwangju,
South Korea.

It contains the following tools:

* ``waves``:

  This is a simple package to treating data from vibration
  experiments.

  The goal of this package is to provide a standardized way of
  accessing and storing data either acquired from test setups of
  generated by computer.


Dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~
This package depends on the following third party packages:

* Numpy
* Scipy

It does not depend on Matplotlib, but it is desirable to have it
installed for visualization.


Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~
To use this package you need `Git <https://git-scm.com>`_ and `Pip
<https://pypi.org/project/pip/>`_ installed in your computer, which
you can install individually.

If you use Anaconda as your package management system, you can install
both of them easily by running the command: ::

  conda install git pip

After both being installed you can use ``pip`` to install this package: ::

  pip install git+https://github.com/luispauloml/asdl_tools

Optionally, you can clone and install from a local directory: ::

   git clone https://github.com/luispauloml/asdl_tools
   cd asdl_tools/
   pip install .


Usage
~~~~~
After installing, you can import it by ``import asdl`` and start
using.  Probably, the most important functionalities can be found in
the functions in ``asdl.io`` or in the class ``MeasuredData``.  Be
sure to check ``help(asdl.io)`` and ``help(asdl.MeasuredData)``.


Contents
~~~~~~~~
It contains one basic class responsible for storing and providing
functions to access the data, and two sub-classes capable of
generating 1-D or 2-D data from wave dispersion relationships: ::

  MeasuredData
  `-- BaseWave
      |-- Surface
      `-- Wavepacket

``MeasuredData`` is the base class for storing and accessing the data,
while ``Wavepacket`` can generate 1-D data, and ``Surface`` is capable
of generating 2-D data. ``BaseWave`` is an intermediate class from
which ``Wavepacket`` and ``Surface`` are derived in order for them to
have a consistent interface.  To learn how to use any one of them, you
can use ``help``.

Besides the basic classes, this package also provides way of acquiring
data other formats via the sub-package ``asdl.io``:

* MATLAB .mat file
  
  Exporting or importing from MATLAB tries to emulate the loose
  standard currently in use at ASDL.  See ``help(asdl.io.loadmat``)
  and ``help(asdl.io.savemat)`` more information.

* COMSOL 2-D data exported in CSV format

  This package can only import data exported from a rectangular grid
  of points.  If the mesh of the COMSOL model is not rectangular, the
  arrays resulting from the importing cannot be properly reshaped and
  an error will be issued.  See ``help(asdl.io.loadcsv)`` for more
  information.

**Important note**: any data generated, saved or recovered using this
package will be treated as being in the SI system, the International
System of Units. That means that length or position will be
represented in meters, time will be seconds, speed will be in meters
per second, and so on.
